README.md, before:

# Glitter — Simple LAN File Transfer CLI

![Glitter](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scarletkc/glitter/refs/heads/main/assets/glitter.svg)

Glitter is a cross‑platform, terminal‑based tool for sending files over a local network. It discovers peers automatically, confirms transfers on the receiver, and supports English/Chinese UIs.

- OS support: Linux, macOS, Windows
- Bilingual UI: English, 中文 (switchable in settings)
- Peer discovery via UDP broadcast + smart replies (or manual IP entry)
- Encrypted transfer (DH key exchange + stream cipher)
- Device fingerprint verification (TOFU) to flag impersonation attempts
- Integrity check (SHA-256) after receive
- Directory transfer: send entire folders (auto-zipped, zero compression)
- Transfer progress and live throughput (e.g. 1.2 MB/s)
- Transfer history (JSONL) stored under user home
- Settings for language & device name & encryption, clear history
  
[Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Chinese docs: see [README.zh-CN.md](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/docs/README.zh-CN.md).

## Why Glitter?

Glitter provides a **simple, terminal-based** alternative to GUI tools and complex protocols:

| Tool | Pros | Cons | Glitter Advantage |
|------|------|------|-------------------|
| **LocalSend** | Beautiful GUI, cross-platform | Requires GUI environment, ~100MB+ install | **CLI-first**: works via SSH, lightweight (~50KB), scriptable |
| **Magic Wormhole** | Simple one-time codes | Requires relay server, single-file only | **LAN-direct**: no internet needed, auto-discovery, no codes to type |
| **SFTP/SCP** | Universal, encrypted | Needs SSH server setup, manual IP entry | **Zero-config**: auto-discovers peers, no server setup |
| **rsync** | Powerful sync engine | Complex syntax, requires remote shell access | **Interactive**: menu-driven, progress bars, history tracking |
| **HTTP file server** | Simple `python -m http.server` | No encryption, manual URL sharing | **Secure**: DH key exchange + encryption, peer selection UI |
| **croc** | End-to-end encryption, relay servers, cross-platform | Requires typing codes, internet relay by default | **LAN-native**: auto-discovery on local network, no codes needed, works offline |

**Use Glitter when you want:**
- Quick file sharing on LAN without leaving the terminal
- Auto-discovery instead of typing IPs
- Encrypted transfers without complex SSH setup
- Minimal dependencies (pure Python, no external binaries)
- Transfer history and bilingual UI

## Quick Start

On first run, Glitter asks for language and device name and saves them. Next runs go straight to the main menu.

- Firewall: Allow UDP 45845 and TCP 45846 (transfer port) for the app if discovery/transfer is blocked.

### PyPI

[Released](https://pypi.org/project/glitter-cli/), recommended to install and run via [pipx](https://pipx.pypa.io/stable/):

- `apt install pipx`  # Debian/Ubuntu
- `pipx install glitter-cli`
- `glitter`
  - `pipx upgrade glitter-cli`  # to update

<details>
  <summary>Alternative: install via pip (not recommended)</summary>

- `pip install glitter-cli`
- `glitter`
  - `pip install --upgrade glitter-cli`  # to update
  
</details>

### GitHub

- For Windows: [exe](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/releases)

Requirements: install [deps](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/requirements.txt)

- Linux/macOS/WSL/Windows (PowerShell/CMD) Run: 
  - `git clone https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter.git`
  - `pip install -r requirements.txt`
  - `python3 -m glitter`

## Usage

- `glitter` — interactive menu  
  - [1] List peers: Show online devices (name/IP/version)  
  - [2] Send file: Select a peer or enter an IP (IPv4/IPv6[:port]) and input a path  
  - [3] Incoming requests: Review transfer requests; Accept/Decline and choose a save directory  
  - [4] Check updates: Open-source repo link and latest version info  
  - [5] History: Show the latest transfer records  
  - [6] Settings: Change language/device name/port/encryption, choose default receive directory, toggle auto-accept trusted transfers, clear history or trusted fingerprints  
  - [7] Quit: Exit the program
- `glitter send <IP[:port]> <path>` — direct send without entering the menu  
  - Example: `glitter send 192.168.1.20 ~/Downloads/demo.zip`  
  - IPv6: `glitter send "[fe80::abcd]:45846" ./folder`  
  - Reuses the same progress display and history logging as the interactive flow (the receiver needs the menu running to approve)

## Files & Persistence

- Config: `~/.glitter/config.json` (language, device name, transfer port, encryption, default receive directory, auto-accept trusted flag)
- Trusted fingerprints: `~/.glitter/known_peers.json` (peer IDs and fingerprints stored after first approval)
- History: `~/.glitter/history.jsonl` (one JSON per line)
- Default receive folder: configurable; defaults to `~/Downloads/GlitterDownloads` on Windows, `~/GlitterDownloads` elsewhere

## Debugging

- Enable verbose IDs in lists by setting env var `GLITTER_DEBUG=1` before launch.

## Roadmap / Ideas

- Drag‑and‑drop TUI, multi‑file queue
- Service mode and auto‑accept rules

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Update docs and bump version to 0.4.0
Added a new roadmap-ideas.md file and moved roadmap content from README.md. Updated README.md and README.zh-CN.md with headless usage instructions. Bumped package version to 0.4.0 in glitter/__init__.py.

README.md, after:

# Glitter — Simple LAN File Transfer CLI

![Glitter](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scarletkc/glitter/refs/heads/main/assets/glitter.svg)

Glitter is a cross‑platform, terminal‑based tool for sending files over a local network. It discovers peers automatically, confirms transfers on the receiver, and supports English/Chinese UIs.

- OS support: Linux, macOS, Windows
- Bilingual UI: English, 中文 (switchable in settings)
- Peer discovery via UDP broadcast + smart replies (or manual IP entry)
- Encrypted transfer (DH key exchange + stream cipher)
- Device fingerprint verification (TOFU) to flag impersonation attempts
- Integrity check (SHA-256) after receive
- Directory transfer: send entire folders (auto-zipped, zero compression)
- Transfer progress and live throughput (e.g. 1.2 MB/s)
- Transfer history (JSONL) stored under user home
- Settings for language & device name & encryption, clear history
  
[Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Chinese docs: see [README.zh-CN.md](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/docs/README.zh-CN.md).

## Why Glitter?

Glitter provides a **simple, terminal-based** alternative to GUI tools and complex protocols:

| Tool | Pros | Cons | Glitter Advantage |
|------|------|------|-------------------|
| **LocalSend** | Beautiful GUI, cross-platform | Requires GUI environment, ~100MB+ install | **CLI-first**: works via SSH, lightweight (~50KB), scriptable |
| **Magic Wormhole** | Simple one-time codes | Requires relay server, single-file only | **LAN-direct**: no internet needed, auto-discovery, no codes to type |
| **SFTP/SCP** | Universal, encrypted | Needs SSH server setup, manual IP entry | **Zero-config**: auto-discovers peers, no server setup |
| **rsync** | Powerful sync engine | Complex syntax, requires remote shell access | **Interactive**: menu-driven, progress bars, history tracking |
| **HTTP file server** | Simple `python -m http.server` | No encryption, manual URL sharing | **Secure**: DH key exchange + encryption, peer selection UI |
| **croc** | End-to-end encryption, relay servers, cross-platform | Requires typing codes, internet relay by default | **LAN-native**: auto-discovery on local network, no codes needed, works offline |

**Use Glitter when you want:**
- Quick file sharing on LAN without leaving the terminal
- Auto-discovery instead of typing IPs
- Encrypted transfers without complex SSH setup
- Minimal dependencies (pure Python, no external binaries)
- Transfer history and bilingual UI

## Quick Start

On first run, Glitter asks for language and device name and saves them. Next runs go straight to the main menu.

- Firewall: Allow UDP 45845 and TCP 45846 (transfer port) for the app if discovery/transfer is blocked.

### PyPI

[Released](https://pypi.org/project/glitter-cli/), recommended to install and run via [pipx](https://pipx.pypa.io/stable/):

- `apt install pipx`  # Debian/Ubuntu
- `pipx install glitter-cli`
- `glitter`
  - `pipx upgrade glitter-cli`  # to update

<details>
  <summary>Alternative: install via pip (not recommended)</summary>

- `pip install glitter-cli`
- `glitter`
  - `pip install --upgrade glitter-cli`  # to update
  
</details>

### GitHub

- For Windows: [exe](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/releases)

Requirements: install [deps](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/requirements.txt)

- Linux/macOS/WSL/Windows (PowerShell/CMD) Run: 
  - `git clone https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter.git`
  - `pip install -r requirements.txt`
  - `python3 -m glitter`

## Usage

- `glitter` — interactive menu  
  - [1] List peers: Show online devices (name/IP/version)  
  - [2] Send file: Select a peer or enter an IP (IPv4/IPv6[:port]) and input a path  
  - [3] Incoming requests: Review transfer requests; Accept/Decline and choose a save directory  
  - [4] Check updates: Open-source repo link and latest version info  
  - [5] History: Show the latest transfer records  
  - [6] Settings: Change language/device name/port/encryption, choose default receive directory, toggle auto-accept trusted transfers, clear history or trusted fingerprints  
  - [7] Quit: Exit the program
- `glitter send <IP[:port]> <path>` — direct send without entering the menu  
  - Example: `glitter send 192.168.1.20 ~/Downloads/demo.zip`  
  - IPv6: `glitter send "[fe80::abcd]:45846" ./folder`  
  - Reuses the same progress display and history logging as the interactive flow (the receiver needs the menu running to approve)
- Want to keep it running headlessly? Wrap the same command with `uv run`, `systemd`, `pm2`, etc. once the initial setup is done.

## Files & Persistence

- Config: `~/.glitter/config.json` (language, device name, transfer port, encryption, default receive directory, auto-accept trusted flag)
- Trusted fingerprints: `~/.glitter/known_peers.json` (peer IDs and fingerprints stored after first approval)
- History: `~/.glitter/history.jsonl` (one JSON per line)
- Default receive folder: configurable; defaults to `~/Downloads/GlitterDownloads` on Windows, `~/GlitterDownloads` elsewhere

## Debugging

- Enable verbose IDs in lists by setting env var `GLITTER_DEBUG=1` before launch.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/scarletkc/glitter/blob/main/LICENSE)
